Bilibili (stylized bilibili), nicknamed B Site, is a video sharing website based in Shanghai where users can submit, view and add overlaid commentary on videos. Since the mid-2010s, Bilibili began to expand to a broader audience from its original niche market that focused on animation, comics, and games (ACG), and it has become one of the major Chinese over-the-top streaming platforms serving videos on demand such as documentaries, variety shows, and other original programming. Bilibili hosts videos on various themes, including anime, music, dance, science and technology, movies, drama, fashion and video games, but it is also known for its extensive kuso-style parodies by subcultural content creators. Bilibili provides a live streaming service where the audience can interact with streamers. Bilibili also offers games, mostly ACG-themed mobile games, such as the Chinese version of Fate/Grand Order. Bilibili is also known for its scrolling danmu ("bullet curtain," 弹幕) commenting system.
In 2015, it was estimated that Bilibili served over 50 million users, and 75% of them are under the age of 24.[3] Quarterly results released in Q3 2021 indicate that the company's platform has grown to serve around 237 million monthly active users.[4] In the third quarter of 2022, the number of average monthly active users of the Chinese online entertainment platform Bilibili reached about 332.6 million, including 28.5 million paying users.
Besides hosting video content, Bilibili's main feature is a real-time captioning system that displays user comments as streams of scrolling subtitles overlaid on the screen, visually resembling a danmaku shooter game. These are called bullet comments, danmu, or danmaku[34][35][36] (Chinese: 弹幕; pinyin: dànmù; Japanese: 弾幕; rōmaji: danmaku; "bullet curtain"). Such subtitles are broadcast to all viewers in real-time, creating a chat room experience in which users feel like watching and playing together with others. This system offers various subtitle controls, including style, format, and movement. Users can also create translated and soramimi subtitles, or special effects with carefully formed subtitles.
Bilibili's platform also offers a feature called "advanced subtitles", where users can use an ECMAScript-based API to control video playback, dynamically change danmaku subtitles and draw shapes on the screen. However, some features are only available on browsers running Adobe Flash, and do not work well with HTML5 players.[37][38] This functionality is only available with the video poster's permission.[citation needed] Danmaku are easy to post, but only registered users who have passed a verification check and have a phone number tied to their account are allowed to post them. Comments usually move from right to left on a video, and if viewers do not wish to be distracted, they can disable them. There are three types of bullet comments offered on Bilibili: rolling comments, top comments and bottom comments. Non-registered users can make comments, but each comment is limited to 20 characters. Registered users may edit the size and colour of their comments, and have an increased character limit of 220. The video creator has the ability to save or delete comments. Bilibili users may use acronyms or slang unique to the site, such as the code "2333" to indicate laughter. Another type of comment unique to Bilibili is a "high energy alert" (高能预警), which is a kind of spoiler warning, to tell the audience that something exciting or climactic is approaching.[39][40] Research result states that when the main purpose of watching videos is entertaining, the bullet comments meets the leisure and self-expression needs of users.
The Ministry of Culture of China has criticised the bullet comment system for allowing the spread of hateful messages on videos.
Bilibili is experimenting with HTML5 video playback technology and has released smartphone apps for video playback on iOS, Android and Windows Phone.[43][44][45] It also has an API service, enabling third-party developers to access website content including video lists, comments, subtitles, topics and programmes, obtain the services for publishing manuscripts in bulk.[46] The service is rate-limited and requires developer keys for authentication.[47]
